Alright here's
another exercise, but this exercise is a little more complicated than the earlier
exercises. So I want you to implement this function, check
Speed, this function takes a parameter that's the speed of a car.
Now in this program, I'm assuming that speed limit
is 70 km an hour. So if a
car is driving under the speed limit, we get this Ok
message on the console. Similarly if we pass 70
here, so if somebody is driving exactly at the speed limit, we're still good.
We still get the Ok message. Now for every
five kilometers above the speed limit,
they're going to get 1 point. So if I drive at
75 km an hour, I get 1 point here.
But what if I drive at 72 km an hour?
I'm still good. So for every 5 km,
above the speed limit, we should give the driver 1 point. Now as
part of calculating the point here, you will have to use one of the built in
functions in JavaScript that is Math.
floor. We can give this function a floating point number,
like 1.3, let's say 1.3 points, and this will
convert that to the greatest integer, for example if we go to the
console here, and type math.floor of
1.3, we get 1. So you will have to use this function
as part of your calculations okay, now here is a tip for you.
Back to our checkSpeed function, what if you passed 80 here?
We should get 2 points right? So we get 2 points, beautiful.
Now what if we drive at 180 km an hour? Our
license is suspended. So if a driver gets more
than 12 points, then their license should be
suspended. So here's the logic for this function.
I want you to spend 15-20 minutes to do this exercise,
once you're done, come back and continue watching.
Alright now let's see
how I solved this problem. So let's define a function called
checkSpeed, it takes the speed parameter
now first we want to see if the speed is less than the
speed limit. So here's a simple if condition,
if speed is less than 70 km an hour,
you want to display console.log, okay,
now the first thing I want to improve here is to turn
the magic number into a constant. Because someone else looking at this
code may not know what 70 represents here.
So you should avoid using magic numbers in your code, always use constants
to describe them. So here we can define a constant,
speedLimit. We set it to 70,
and then replace this magic number with
speedLimit. With this change now our code is more
expressive, and also, if you want to use this number somewhere else
in this function, we don't have to repeat it multiple times, we have defined
it here once and we can reuse it in multiple places, if
tomorrow the speed limit changes to 75 or 65,
there is only a single place that we have to change.
Okay? So, if the speed is less than the speed limit,
we display okay. Otherwise,
we should calculate the points. So here we need
a simple calculation. We want to get the speed
subtract it from the speed limit,
and then divide the result by 5.
Because for every 5 km above the speed limit
we should give them 1 point. Now once again we don't want to use this
magic number here, it's not descriptive. So we want to turn this into a
constant. So, let's define another constant.
We can call this kmPerPoint.
And set it to 5. And then
replace this magic number with kmPerPoint.
So with this we get the number of points.
That we should give to this driver. Now the result of this expression
can be a floating point number. So earlier I told you that math of
floor, to convert that floating point number to the greatest integer.
So here, we can call
math.floor and
as an argument, we pass this expression
here. So this is how we calculate the points.
Now we should check to see if the driver gets more than 12 points.
So we need another if statement if points
is greater than or equal to 12.
We want to suspend their license so console.log
license suspended.
Otherwise, we want to display a number of points
on the console, so console.log
points, and as a second argument pass
this points variable. Now technically I could
also use a constant, and that's a better practice, to make sure
I don't accidentally modify these points here. So,
the change is to a constant, and if you accidentally try to modify
points like this, we're going to get an error.
So as I told you before, const, or constant should be your
default choice. If you want to reassign a variable, that's when you use the
let keyword. Now let's test this program up to this point. So,
on the top, I'm going to call this function
checkSpeed and pass 50.
Save the changes,
we get okay, so far so good, what if we drive,
exactly at the speed limit? Hm, that's
weird. Instead of getting 0 points we should get the okay message.
So there is a bug in our condition here, so if speed
is less than or equal to speedLimit, we should get the ok message.
Save the changes, now the bug is solved.
What if we drive one km above the speed
limit. Notice all the test cases I'm going through for this
exercise. It's very important for when we write the function to test it with
different values. So when we call this function for 71.
What should we get here? We should still get the ok message instead of
0 points. Because starting from 75 we should get
the first point. So let's save the changes and see what we get.
We got 0 points, so we still have a bug in this function. Well,
we should actually change this condition to something like this.
So we want to get the speed limit, in this case 17 at
kmPerPoint, so that would give us
75. If we drive less than 75
we are still good. But from 75 km an hour
or faster, we should get a point. So, let's
save the changes. At 71 miles an hour we get the ok
message, beautiful. What if we drive at 75, we should get
1 point. So, here's one point, what if we drive at
75, let's say 70 km an hour. We should
still get 1 point. So, save the changes, 1 point
beautiful, we should pass 80 here, we should get 2 points.
There you go. Now to get 12 points,
we have to drive 12 x 5, which is 60 km,
above the speed limit, so if we pass 130
here, we should get 12 points and our license should be suspended.
Save. License suspended, beautiful. So our
function is working, I just want to show you one more tip to make this code
cleaner. So here, we have this else block, and this has caused
indentation here. Now this is not a terribly bad
thing. But it's better to avoid indentation if we can. Because otherwise
we have to scroll to the left and right to see what's happening here.
So, if this condition is true we want to display
ok on the console. Now to get rid of this else block and
the indentation, you can add a block
here, display ok on the console, and then return.
So with this we'll jump out of this function, and none of the
code here will be executed. So with this we can delete,
this else statement as well as the code block,
and remove the indentation.